
# Top 5 List of Articles #


| Article | Source URL | Summary | Explanation |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Bleached From a Distance | https://wattsupwiththat.com/2021/09/27/bleached-from-a-distance/ | Corals appear bleached in photographs because of the light wavelengths that penetrate to the depths the reefs are located. | Corals appear bleached in photographs because of the light wavelengths that penetrate to the depths the reefs are located.|
| Cold-related Mortality Dwarfs Heat-related Mortality in Portugal | http://www.co2science.org/articles/V24/jan/a4.php | Since human mortality is more often associated with cold weather than warm weather, cold temperatures should be a greater source of concern for policymakers. | I had not previously come across papers regarding the correlation between mortality caused by cold and hot weather; despite the somewhat vague content of the article, the inclusion of findings and figures from a peer-reviewed, cited article made me question whether this relationship was significant in the light of climate change impacts. |
| The Adaptive Response of a Sea Urchin to Ocean Acidification | http://www.co2science.org/articles/V22/dec/a5.php | Sea urchins, as well as other marine organisms, may be better equipped to adapt to changes in the aquatic environment (i.e., increasing CO2 levels) than we presume. | Although I am aware of how miniscule changes caused by climate change can lead to larger-scale impacts on the marine ecosystem, such as disruptions to trophic cascades, reading the findings of the study mentioned in this article made me consider whether we are exaggerating the harm that could be inflicted by climate change on marine organisms on a more individual level.|
| The Media Is Lying About Greenland and Climate Change | https://wattsupwiththat.com/2021/09/13/the-media-is-lying-about-greenland-and-climate-change/ | The media lies and is highly selective with the information they decide to include in their articles, such as framing a rainfall event in Greenland as the first ever recorded instance, in an attempt to reinforce their alarmist stances on climate change. | Misinformation and bias in the media is a large concern, considering that most of the public receive their information on climate change from such outlets — the tendency for cherry picking of information by the media, as this article attempted to exemplify, made me question just how much information selectivity is involved in maintaining the so-called alarmist climate change narratives. |
| Humans AFFECT Climate — they cannot CONTROL Climate | http://climatechange101.ca/learn-more-about-climate-change/climate-always-changes/  | Human impacts have little influence on climate change due to the large-scale natural processes that affect the Earth’s environment and weather, and due to the large number of such climate factors, it is difficult to accurately model climate change. | It is a fact that anthropogenic activity contributes to climate change, and that there are certain natural processes that we cannot control, however, this article made me consider the representativeness of models, particularly considering that many educated assumptions are made during modelling, as well as the fact that there are many climate factors that may have a modulating effect on various environmental processes. |



# Q3: Evaluate the #1 claim on your list. #

The claim that I chose to evaluate is from the last article in my list. This article took somewhat of a compelling approach, in that the authors exploited the scale of climate change to instill a sense of separation between the climate problem and individuals, which can in turn result in the impacts of climate change being perceived as less concerning or real (Wang et al., 2019). 

In brief, the article states that humans have little control over environmental processes that occur naturally (e.g., volcanism, solar and astronomical forces, cloud feedback) and these complex, large-scale processes render anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions as insignificant (Climate Change 101, n.d.). The article also emphasizes the inaccurate nature of cloud modelling. While I was momentarily questioning my understanding scientific modelling and my perception of the scale of climate change, I quickly evaluated this article to conclude that this article lacked credibility.

Firstly, the website, Climate Change 101, is the project of a non-profit organization comprised of environmental scientists and engineers who believe that the climate change hypothesis is built upon weak scientific evidence. The articles posted on the website appear unprofessional, lacking an author and a date. This specific article lacks references apart from a single citation included in the questionable figure, which depicts a block of text describing the challenges associated with modelling cloud processes positioned over a potentially copyrighted image of a cloud — there is also no bibliography for the citation. Considering the amount of scientific information included in this article pertaining to the natural processes influencing climate change, it is expected that reputable sources would be used to support these claims. However, the author(s) failed to do so. This weakens the credibility of the claims made and raises questions regarding the validity of the arguments: do these claims even have a scientific basis? Additionally, with knowledge of the skeptical stance taken by the creators of the website, the information included in this article can be interpreted as biased, further reinforcing the article’s lack of credibility.

In terms of the main claims proposed, they can be countered with empirical evidence. For one, the article criticizes cloud modelling for the difficulty in accurately parameterizing all the external factors involved in nephological processes. These are impossible expectations. While it is widely recognized that cloud processes are susceptible to high degrees of uncertainty, the factors affecting these events are well understood, and technological advancements in cloud monitoring have established the similarities between predictive models and recorded data between 1980s and 2000s (Norris et al., 2016). In addition, the article seems to use the terms “weather” and “climate” interchangeably in justifying “dynamic forces” that have a greater impact on the Earth’s fluctuating temperature (Climate Change 101, n.d.). This demonstrates an insufficient understanding of the important difference between these two terms, which is key in acknowledging the different predictive powers of weather and climate models (Krishnamurthy, 2019). Furthermore, the concluding remark which states that anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions are inconsequential due to the Earth’s uncontrollable and large-scale natural processes, seems rather abrupt and lacks logical justification. Natural and unpredictable weathering processes do occur, and humans cannot control the course of such events. However, this does not make anthropogenic greenhouse gas contributions any less harmful; while carbon dioxide is added to the atmosphere as a part of naturally occurring biogeochemical cycles, human activity contributes additional gases that accumulate in the atmosphere while disrupting natural carbon fluxes (Solomon et al., 2009). 

To an uneducated or skeptical reader, this flawed article may be perceived as informative or eye-opening — this highlights the importance of critical thinking and evaluating sources. 
  
## References ##

Climate Change 101, n.d. Humans AFFECT Climate – they cannot CONTROL Climate. [online] Climate Change. Available at: <http://climatechange101.ca/learn-more-about-climate-change/climate-always-changes/> [Accessed 21 Oct. 2021].

Krishnamurthy, V., 2019. Predictability of Weather and Climate. Earth and Space Science, 6(7), pp.1043–1056. https://doi.org/10.1029/2019EA000586.

Norris, J.R., Allen, R.J., Evan, A.T., Zelinka, M.D., O’Dell, C.W. and Klein, S.A., 2016. Evidence for climate change in the satellite cloud record. Nature, 536(7614), pp.72–75. https://doi.org/10.1038/nature18273.

Solomon, S., Plattner, G.-K., Knutti, R. and Friedlingstein, P., 2009. Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 106(6), pp.1704–1709. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0812721106.

Wang, S., Hurlstone, M.J., Leviston, Z., Walker, I. and Lawrence, C., 2019. Climate Change From a Distance: An Analysis of Construal Level and Psychological Distance From Climate Change. Frontiers in Psychology, 10, p.230. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2019.00230.

# Q4: Reflect on common themes or approaches observed in the most compelling articles. #

I noticed that the main articles that caught my attention were mainly those that seemingly provided scientific evidence to support their statements. On second glance, however, the scientific concepts and terminology lacked substantiation and references; it seemed like articles simply listed scientific ideas to create an illusion of credibility, particularly when coupled with writers or organizations affiliated with ‘experts’ in some scientific field. Multiple articles excluded findings or interpretations that contradicted their climate-denying narrative — in other words, cherry picking and conducting slothful inductions (Cook et al., 2019). Moreover, various articles oversimplified the consequences of human activity. When interpreting figures from papers, many authors seemed to employ post hoc fallacies, whereby false causes and correlations were concluded as true (e.g., cold weather and mortality rates). Additionally, the interesting use of collective and inclusive language was similar; phrases such as “you and I” and “we” were used as persuasive tactics.

## References ##

Cook, J., Supran, G., Lewandowsky, S., Oreskes, N. and Maibach, E., 2019. America Misled: How the fossil fuel industry deliberately misled Americans about climate change. Available at: <https://www.climatechangecommunication.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/America_Misled.pdf> [Accessed 22 Oct. 2021].
