# Q3: Evaluate the #1 claim on your list. #

The claim that I chose to evaluate is from the last article in my list. This article took somewhat of a compelling approach, in that the authors exploited the scale of climate change to instill a sense of separation between the climate problem and individuals, which can in turn result in the impacts of climate change being perceived as less concerning or real (Wang et al., 2019). 

In brief, the article states that humans have little control over environmental processes that occur naturally (e.g., volcanism, solar and astronomical forces, cloud feedback) and these complex, large-scale processes render anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions as insignificant (Climate Change 101, n.d.). The article also emphasizes the inaccurate nature of cloud modelling. While I was momentarily questioning my understanding scientific modelling and my perception of the scale of climate change, I quickly evaluated this article to conclude that this article lacked credibility.

Firstly, the website, Climate Change 101, is the project of a non-profit organization comprised of environmental scientists and engineers who believe that the climate change hypothesis is built upon weak scientific evidence. The articles posted on the website appear unprofessional, lacking an author and a date. This specific article lacks references apart from a single citation included in the questionable figure, which depicts a block of text describing the challenges associated with modelling cloud processes positioned over a potentially copyrighted image of a cloud — there is also no bibliography for the citation. Considering the amount of scientific information included in this article pertaining to the natural processes influencing climate change, it is expected that reputable sources would be used to support these claims. However, the author(s) failed to do so. This weakens the credibility of the claims made and raises questions regarding the validity of the arguments: do these claims even have a scientific basis? Additionally, with knowledge of the skeptical stance taken by the creators of the website, the information included in this article can be interpreted as biased, further reinforcing the article’s lack of credibility.

In terms of the main claims proposed, they can be countered with empirical evidence. For one, the article criticizes cloud modelling for the difficulty in accurately parameterizing all the external factors involved in nephological processes. These are impossible expectations. While it is widely recognized that cloud processes are susceptible to high degrees of uncertainty, the factors affecting these events are well understood, and technological advancements in cloud monitoring have established the similarities between predictive models and recorded data between 1980s and 2000s (Norris et al., 2016). In addition, the article seems to use the terms “weather” and “climate” interchangeably in justifying “dynamic forces” that have a greater impact on the Earth’s fluctuating temperature (Climate Change 101, n.d.). This demonstrates an insufficient understanding of the important difference between these two terms, which is key in acknowledging the different predictive powers of weather and climate models (Krishnamurthy, 2019). Furthermore, the concluding remark which states that anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions are inconsequential due to the Earth’s uncontrollable and large-scale natural processes, seems rather abrupt and lacks logical justification. Natural and unpredictable weathering processes do occur, and humans cannot control the course of such events. However, this does not make anthropogenic greenhouse gas contributions any less harmful; while carbon dioxide is added to the atmosphere as a part of naturally occurring biogeochemical cycles, human activity contributes additional gases that accumulate in the atmosphere while disrupting natural carbon fluxes (Solomon et al., 2009). 

To an uneducated or skeptical reader, this flawed article may be perceived as informative or eye-opening — this highlights the importance of critical thinking and evaluating sources. 
  
## References ##

Climate Change 101, n.d. Humans AFFECT Climate – they cannot CONTROL Climate. [online] Climate Change. Available at: <http://climatechange101.ca/learn-more-about-climate-change/climate-always-changes/> [Accessed 21 Oct. 2021].

Krishnamurthy, V., 2019. Predictability of Weather and Climate. Earth and Space Science, 6(7), pp.1043–1056. https://doi.org/10.1029/2019EA000586.

Norris, J.R., Allen, R.J., Evan, A.T., Zelinka, M.D., O’Dell, C.W. and Klein, S.A., 2016. Evidence for climate change in the satellite cloud record. Nature, 536(7614), pp.72–75. https://doi.org/10.1038/nature18273.

Solomon, S., Plattner, G.-K., Knutti, R. and Friedlingstein, P., 2009. Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 106(6), pp.1704–1709. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0812721106.

Wang, S., Hurlstone, M.J., Leviston, Z., Walker, I. and Lawrence, C., 2019. Climate Change From a Distance: An Analysis of Construal Level and Psychological Distance From Climate Change. Frontiers in Psychology, 10, p.230. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2019.00230.
